Docs redesign (#1044)
modelcontextprotocol/modelcontextprotocol: docs/docs/tutorials/use-remote-mcp-server.mdx

---

Remote MCP servers extend AI applications' capabilities beyond your local environment, providing access to internet-hosted tools, services, and data sources. By connecting to remote MCP servers, you transform AI assistants from helpful tools into informed teammates capable of handling complex, multi-step projects with real-time access to external resources.

Many clients now support remote MCP servers, enabling a wide range of integration possibilities. This guide demonstrates how to connect to remote MCP servers using [Claude](https://claude.ai/) as an example, one of the [many clients that support MCP](/clients). While we focus on Claude's implementation through Custom Connectors, the concepts apply broadly to other MCP-compatible clients.

## Understanding Remote MCP Servers

Remote MCP servers function similarly to local MCP servers but are hosted on the internet rather than your local machine. They expose tools, prompts, and resources that Claude can use to perform tasks on your behalf. These servers can integrate with various services such as project management tools, documentation systems, code repositories, and any other API-enabled service.

> The key advantage of remote MCP servers is their accessibility. Unlike local servers that require installation and configuration on each device, remote servers are available from any Claude session with an internet connection. This makes them ideal for team collaboration, cloud-based workflows, and accessing services that require server-side processing or authentication.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The key advantage of remote MCP servers is their accessibility. Unlike local servers that require installation and configuration on each device, remote servers are available from any MCP client with an internet connection. This makes them ideal for web-based AI applications, integrations that emphasize ease-of-use and services that require server-side processing or authentication.

```
